---
layout: post
title: "Knowing the ground"
date: 2008-09-12 06:10:41
categories: [Running]
---

<div id="msgcns!9091E2A0F1B7D523!725" class="bvMsg"><div>Sep 11, 2008 - After struggling through the time zone change and jet lag for three nights, I finally got back my rhythm and able to get up early enough to go for a run this morning. I checked Live map the night before and planned an approximately five km run around the Hyatt Bellevue area. The route starts from Hyatt at junction of Bellevue Way and 8th Avenue, running westward along 8th Ave towards the Washington Lake, then turns southwest to Lake Boulevard bending slowly towards the east and then back to Hyatt from the Bellevue Way.</div>
<div> </div>
<div>Bellevue in Seattle, Washington, unlike Beijing, is not a highly populated area. Even at the peak of the day, there aren't many people on the street (maybe to the locals here, the notion of many is quite different than people who live in Beijing or Singapore). At 6.30am, the streets were all quiet, and the air was cold (probably around 10 degree Celsius) as the region enters the autumn season. Without checking the temperature, I was dressed as per normal, a thin T-shirt and running short, and it was a little chilling. The place itself looks flat from the 16th floor of Hyatt, but on the ground, it is actually quite different. The straight road runs up a long slope then tapered down around mid-way. So my speed follows, as shown in the chart below. At the downward slope, I was able to pick up from the speed that I loss during the long up-slope. That gives me the &quot;fastest speed so far&quot; score announced by a Tiger Wood recording from the iPod at the end of the run, which is pretty encouraging, given that this is actually the shortest distance (5.4km) I have made in the previous 10 runs. (Note that the time reflected on the chart is GMT+8, which is Beijing time even though it was actually completed at around 7am here in Bellevue.) </div>
<p><span style="display:none;"> </span><span style="display:none;"> </span><span style="display:none;"> </span><span style="display:none;"> </span><a href="http://nikeplus.nike.com/nikeplus/v1/swf/scrapablewidget/rundetail.swf">http://nikeplus.nike.com/nikeplus/v1/swf/scrapablewidget/rundetail.swf</a> 
<p>As mentioned earlier, the perspective from the top and the actual experience on the ground were actually quite different. As in many other things we experience in life, we can only see and observe so much from the top and afar. Without being on the ground, there's no way to learn about the terrains and the ground challenges. The experience is also different on the ground when you are in a vehicle than when you are actually running or walking. In the latter, we can then really feel the distance, the altitude, and any irregularities that are present and danger. 
<div> </div></div>