---
layout: post
title: "Superman inside"
date: 2009-07-30 12:22:56
categories: [Risk Management, Running]
---

<div class="bvMsg" id="msgcns!9091E2A0F1B7D523!1476">
<p style="font-family:Verdana;">Have not been running for more than a week now, though I did had a few swims in the period, and feeling a little lethargic late afternoon, I decided go for a run. As the surrounding here is having a number of construction work going on, with many folks spending their vacation elsewhere (rather than in Beijing), I thought it might be a good idea for a change to run outside the housing compound. I ran pass the Ditan hospital (where they house the H1N1 patients in Beijing) and get into a forest path alongside the airport highway. The path was long, quiet, and was guarded and shaded by rolls of tall trees on both sides. It runs from around Exit 4 of the highway all the way through to Exit 5, for about 2.5 km. It was great running in such a path. </p>
<p style="font-family:Verdana;">Upon reaching the end of the forest path, instead of turning back, which I would get a total of around 5 km for the day’s run, I decided to push forward. Crossing a few meters of bushes, I got to a road junction, the side of a roundabout that leads to the airport highway. I took a left turn which lead into a village road. As I ran along, the path gets more dusty, and the surrounding air seems to get worst :-( I passed a townhouse/condominium compound known as Palace de Fortune, which leads me further into a bigger unknown. My estimation was that the path should lead me back to Jingxun road, which should easily lead back to my place via that main road. While I was right about the direction, from where I was to Jingxun was a rather long way to go, lasted for nearly another two kilometers or maybe more, passing the Sixth Ring road/expressway (which was over me), a few slumps of rubbishes (seldom see such scene in Beijing actually), and a small village center where there were bridal shop, local restaurants, and other shop houses. Lots of people walking and quite a few cars and motorcycles passing in both directions. I was nearly exhausted when I finally got out to Jingxun road, a busy traffic junction where we usually pass by when going to the Euro Plaza for our groceries. </p>
<p style="font-family:Verdana;">For once, I had to slow down, and finally started walking. My iPod Shuffle at this moment started playing Eric Clapton’s “Superman Inside”. What a irony, I thought. Here I was nearly lost, exhausted, and just found out that I’m still around four km from home. After the Superman song, I picked up my pace and managed to jog back, completing a total distance of 9.7 km in about 1 hour. </p>
<p style="font-family:Verdana;">On hindsight, I thought, I should have rode a bicycle to discover the path before the venture. But the experience would not be the same. I may miss an opportunity for a great run, which however didn’t turn out to be the case this time. I gathered that the risk of such a venture is rather small anyway. In the worst case, I would just walk instead of continue running. While the feeling of a Superman inside may be there, there’s no need to really act like one after all. In managing information risk, perhaps similar approach applies. It would be ideal to test out every corner and discover all the risk issues before we design a plan to proceed. The reality is that our resources and the timeliness of things unfold in the business many times just wouldn’t allow us such a privilege to know everything beforehand. Setting up an appropriate baseline to deal with the known issues and getting prepared and ready to respond to changing situation as we move forward are therefore critical. This is the same as ensuring that our body is able to deal with the common challenges before taking a long distance run. </p>

</div>